Let's move on to the next topic wrapper classes in the previous section will get a lot of questions
which are related to the Java platform our platform along with the primitive variables that basic in
floor and things like that it provides certain things called proper classes.
This wrapper classes are basically wrappers around the basic primitive variables.
So you have the basic isn't an integer.
It's basically a wrapper class around that.
Similarly for all the primitive variable types Java provides very proper classes so you have wrapper
classes that basically short integer and long you have floating type variables float and double and
you have a boolean a byte and a character.
So those are the different upper classes that are present in Java as we discussed earlier of wrapper
class.
Basically wraps around the data type and gives it an appearance of an object.
Also provide a lot of utility classes.
So the question might be why do we need upper classes developer classes have a lot of utility methods.
So that would be one reason why you might need a wrapper class.
Other than that one of the reasons why you'd need to have a wrapper class is because if let's say a
specific wrapper class object you would want to put a value as NULL for a primitive de-value can never
be null.
So that could be a possible reason.
The other reason could be that you would want to use a wrapper class in a collection.
So as you know in all Java collections the only support objects and remedial classes are not really
are primitive types are not really objects.
So you'd not be able to add a primitive directly to a collection.
Sometimes you might see code like Cashman put the key comma five.
It might look like a basic primitive way but actually what would happen is auto boxing autobody auto
boxing would take place and it could be converted into a wrapper class and then that could be put into
the collection.
So effectively in a collection you would not be able to add a pyramid to value to add a wrapper class.
I mean to add a player do you into collection.
It has to be a wrapper.
So that might be one reason why you would.
You might need to use a proper class.
The other thing is you might want to use upper class to create objects from other types.
For example if I have a string value 55 I would want to convert it to a number.
I can do that by using integer constructor which acts that string as a argument.
Those are the reasons why you might need wrapper classes in Java.
The next thing we want to discuss is the different ways of creating wrapper classes.
How do you create proper classes prep classes can be created in a couple of different ways.
Basically one is using the proper class constructor.
So here you can see in digital 55 in year of 55 using a string and you see how you can create floats
as well in here.
So that's basically the proper class constructor.
And then you see the other things are the constructors which are present in here.
Carriker of C.
Which character do you want to use.
And you have boolean constructors basically accepting any kind of strings as well.
There are different kinds of constructors which are used to create these wrapper to access the other
things which are present in Java are also the value of.
Each of these wrapper classes provide a value of method which is a static method which can be used to
create a wrapper class.
The main difference between these two ways of creating a wrapper class is the fact that when you use
use a constructor you are always creating a new object.
So you always like whether you always create a new object with the constructor.
However if you're using the value of static method like this one over here then there's a chance that
you might be using a cached value.
So there's a chance that you might not really be using a new object all the time.
So if I'm actually creating value between minus 128 and 127 there's a chance that if there are two such
values you would cache the value and return it back.
If you look at this code here you'll understand this.
So this is the code which from inside the JDK for integer value of you're seeing that it's actually
creating a cache.
So what is happening is there's an integer cache created with a set of values.
And when I'm searching for something between that range of values what Jaguar does is give the cached
value.
If it's outside that range then it would return a new integer to summarize.
I would really prefer to use static value or method all the time because it has a chance that you might
save memory because it use the objects which are already there since classes are immutable it's not
a problem to reuse those values once a proper class is created.
You will not be able to change the value of it.
So since that immutable you'd be able to easily reuse the references to them without having that de-valued
there would change.
So to summarize you can create a wrapper class using a constructor or the value of the value of is a
better approach because it can't have cash a set of values and reuses objects for them.
What is auto boxing.
The definition you're looking at here would say or boxing is automatic Kanwisher dayjob a compiler does
between primitive types and they're called spawning proper objects.
What does that mean.
Basically what it means is when I'm creating an integer I look at this line of code.
So I'm taking a value of 9 and assuming a setting it to impeach of wrapper class what happens is this
primitive integer 9 is automatically wrapped and converted into of wrapper class.
Typically the value of method would be used so it's almost similar to integer that value of nine.
So it creates an digit and returns it back.
So in the example like the one below integer then I'm doing a 10 plus plus.
This then is not really a variable to 10 plus plus in relation to Java I would have thrown a compilation
error but apage are fine.
What it does is it would auto blocks convert it and increment the value which is present in the Integer.
I like the fact that this is a really funny example because I'm having a value of 10 here and doing
it 10 plus plus.
So the value of 10 would be Lerone don't worry about it.
The example was not really a great coding example I would say but it's just to illustrate the concept
of art of boxing the fact that he can do a 10 plus plus on Rappa integer.
What are the advantages of auto boxing.
The thing is what are the boxing we would use the value of metal to the static Rallye of metal would
be used to create objects.
So when I do integer 90s equal to 9 what would happen is integer 90 is equal to integer value of mine.
And as we discussed earlier the value of method would look at the cash and if there is a similar object
if there is a same object present that need to use the object instead of creating another object.
So that's what you see here in this example.
So if I'm doing a new integer of nine twice what you would see is both are not the same object get equal
but they are not the same object they are two different objects.
And here when I do 90 is equal to nine 1990s equal to nine They're both the same objects.
So since they are the same object they are equal as well.
So that's basically the biggest advantage of all boxing or boxing.
The users the verbal objects which are already created.
So it's better to go for auto boxing.
The next thing we would want to discuss is what is testing basically casting is typically used when
you want to come with one data type into another.
Basically when you look at casting there are two types.
One is implicit and explicit implicit casting is automatically done by the compiler.
For example I'm saying long number is equal to value values.
Typically if you look at it here it changes the value.
However the Jawa pilot would implicitly cast this hundred to a long and then store the value in number.
Similarly when we do floor a physical 200 100 is a number and we are storing it into a float.
So it's automatically converted into a float and stored in the float.
Well you this is implicit casting typically implicit castings are done when you are doing the automatic
widening current conversions.
OK.
Typical technical jargon.
So basically when you're storing smaller values into larger integer values.
So I'm storing it into a long int or a byte into a float.
So these are widening.
So this is small.
This is big.
So in those kind of things implicit casting is automatically done by the compiler.
Explicit casting is the casting which we do through Corde.
So basically all the explicit castings are typically not in conversions.
So what does that mean.
So I'm taking a long and that I need to end this into here.
The code will not compile because number is the number one is a long number.
And you cannot take a long way to read it.
So this is basically me telling the compiler that Dundreary the value in this.
I know it's bigger.
There's a possibility that there's a large rally in here and integer but don't worry I'll take the responsibility
for it.
You go ahead and cast it.
A number or two.
And so similarly here so with the floor as well so I'm putting the defrayed or 35 which is a float.
What would happen is this would be cost to indigent and stored into the into variable which is present
in here as you'd guess.
This would involve a truncation because I cannot start to the five point thirty five or twenty five
point three five if I have to pronounce it correctly.
I can substitute if 0.3 Phi into the variable x because it ain't really a will I can only get to 35.
So what happens is that if a point thirty five it's thirty five and that word would be stored into an
int in this step we started with the basic wrapper classes we looked at how we create them.
We looked at what the difference between a constructor and tatic value of mattered.
And we look at the boxing and the advantages of boxing as well less implicit and explicit casting until
the next step.